What is rocket science really?
>> In the beginning, God created the heaven
and the earth.
>> In this special episode of American
Alchemy, we're going to pull on all of
the threads of this hidden history. Sex
magic, Nazi scientists, secret
societies, launch rituals, rockets
[music] launched in time with pagan
festivals, Walt Disney's hidden
messages.
This is the story of how communication
with [music] non-human intelligence
might just be the real and hidden
foundation of our entire journey to the
stars. The whole subplot of our modern
space program
>> 2 1.
>> The date is July 16th, [music]
1969.
230,000 m away from home sat NASA
astronauts Neil [music] Armstrong and
Buzz Aldrin.
>> Columbia Houston, you're looking great.
>> Just 2 and 1/2 hours before [music]
they had become the first pilots to
touch down on another world. [music]
>> As they prepared for their first
moonwalk, Buzz Aldrin opened a small
[music] kit of personal items that he
had brought with him. Aldrin then
proceeded to carry out the first
religious ceremony ever conducted on the
moon.
Using a small silver chalice, a bit of
wine, and a piece of bread that he had
brought with him, he quietly
administered communion.
He recalled the wine curling slowly and
gracefully up the side of the cup. It
was interesting to think the very
[music] first liquid ever poured on the
moon was communion wine. That's one
small step for man, one giant lit for
free masonry.
>> Does the landing on the moon have
anything to do with masonry?
>> Among his belongings was a small silk
flag handstitched [music]
with the symbol of the Scottish right of
Freemasonry. According to the Masonic
Grand Lodge of Ohio, the Apollo 11
mission even established an appendant
body of the Masonic Lodge on the moon.
That flag is now on full display at the
Masonic Temple in Washington DC. When
man reaches [music] new worlds, masonry
will be there.
The Scottish right is a branch of
Freemasonry steeped in esoteric symbols,
ritual, and mysticism. Its highest rank,
the 33rd degree, is symbolically tied to
[music] the 33 vertebrae of the spine,
culminating in the crown chakra, said to
be the gateway to divine insight. Buzz
Aldrin, as it happens, held that rank.
Over the years, researchers looking at
these kinds of oddities began to ask
questions about the meaning of these
rituals on the moon.
But those answers are not exactly what
we're trying to explore [music] in this
episode. What I'm interested in is the
hidden side of NASA and the even more
secretive National Reconnaissance
Office, or [music] NRO. Agencies that
have quietly launched thousands of
rockets and payloads into orbit. Behind
them lies a stranger history than most
people realize. Because after all, Buzz
Aldrin was not the first [music] nor the
last member of NASA to bring what some
might derisively call the Woo to the
epitome of nuts andbolts aerospace,
astrophysics, and rocket fuel. Just take
Edgar [music] Mitchell, Apollo 14
astronaut, the sixth man to walk on the
moon, and one of the most outspoken
voices linking space exploration with
the paranormal. Mitchell wasn't shy
about his belief in extraterrestrial
[music] life or that the US government
was probably covering it up. But beyond
the UFO question, he was also deeply
invested in consciousness and the
psychic phenomena.
On his journey to the moon, Mitchell
conducted a private ESP or extrensory
perception experiment attempting to send
mental images back to Earth using a set
of cards. The results scored by
colleagues back on Earth were better
than chance. Mitchell wasn't shy about
this. [music] In a 1971 New York Times
interview, he said, "We're too much
uninformed [music] about telepathy or
ESP to project its uses. But I think
once we understand the mechanism, then
we can start talking about uses." Few at
NASA were interested except one, Warner
von Braonn. War is a dirty business and
all I can say is that I'm happy that
it's all over now.
>> Yes, that von Braonn, former Nazi and
father of American rocketry. He was
according to Mitchell deeply supportive,
even encouraging Mitchell to find a site
within NASA [music] to study
consciousness further. After his
mission, Mitchell founded the Institute
of Knowic Sciences, a think tank
dedicated [music] to consciousness,
psychic phenomena, and metaphysics. Von
Braonn attended one of its early
fundraising dinners. For Mitchell, the
overview effect, seeing Earth from
space, was spiritual. It made him wonder
if the entire cosmos might be conscious.
And he wasn't alone.
>> There I was. And there you are. There
you are. The Earth dynamic,
overwhelming, and I felt that the world
is just too much purpose, too much
logic. was just too beautiful to have
happened by accident. There [music] has
to be somebody bigger than you and
bigger than me. And and I mean this in a
spiritual sense, not a religious sense.
There has to be a creator of the
universe who stands above the religions
[music]
that we ourselves create to govern our
lives.
From the early days of rocketry to the
height of the Apollo program, there's
been a long tradition of visionary
scientists who saw no contradiction
between [music] physics and mysticism.
Even today, the pattern continues.
>> They're using the images of Roman gods.
And I would ask him, I said, "Why are
you using the images of Roman gods? Why
are you putting them on your mission
patches and also utilizing Latin phrases
from that time period? I mean, you're
sending it up into space. is who in
space is going to read Latin?
>> And his answer was our [music] sponsors.
>> Behind rocket technology, the thrust,
the telemetry, the hardware. There is
something else, something older. There
are whispers and subtle acknowledgements
to gods, ancient symbols, rituals,
[music] and perhaps even the influence
of nonhuman intelligence. And if that is
true, or at least if people involved in
this science believe it to be true, then
we need to ask the fundamental question,
what is rocket science really? Is it
foundationally entangled in something
very strange we've spent millennia
trying to understand? Are there strange
forces helping us get off this planet?
So, buckle up, alchemists, because this
one is going way out there.
>> [music]
[music]
>> When we think about the moon landing,
the rockets, the computers, the
broadcast sent across 230,000 m of empty
space, it's easy to forget how recent
this kind of knowledge really is.
Just over a century ago, astronomers
were still debating the basic structure
of the universe. Einstein had shaken the
foundations of physics in 1915 with his
general theory of relativity. But when
it came to the cosmos itself, even the
experts weren't sure what they were
actually looking at through their
telescopes. Then in 1923, Edwin Hubble
peered through the 100inch Hooker
telescope at Mount Wilson Observatory
and saw something staggering. This new
telescope was powerful enough to resolve
individual stars inside what most had
assumed was just a cloud of gas in our
own galaxy. Guess what? It wasn't. That
cloud, Andromeda, was another galaxy
entirely millions of light years away.
This discovery shattered the old view.
Our Milky Way wasn't the whole universe.
It was just one among many.
It changed the cosmic perspective of the
20th century in the same way Capernicus
had [music] centuries earlier when he
removed the Earth from the center of the
solar system.
And the man who built this observatory
that made this discovery possible was
one of the most important and strangest
figures in the history of modern
astronomy.
I bring you George Ellerie Hail. [music]
Hail wasn't just a brilliant physicist.
[music] He was a visionary and in some
ways a mystic. While still at MIT,
[music] he invented the spectro
helioraph, a device that could capture
solar flares erupting [music] from the
sun's surface. But Hail's fascination
with the sun went far [music] beyond
science. He saw astronomy as a kind of
philosophy, a link back to ancient
Greece, Mesopotamia, Egypt, and Babylon.
He founded multiple observatories,
[music] including Mount Wilson, and
Pasadena. The lodges where astronomers
stayed were reportedly [music] decorated
with Egyptian hieroglyphs and symbols, a
reminder that they weren't just studying
[music] the stars. They were joining a
tradition as old as human civilization.
[music]
Then there's the stranger part. Hail
claimed he received [music] creative
inspiration from a being, an elf or a
spirit as [music] he described it. Some
biographers wrote this off as stress,
eccentricity, [music] or mistransation.
But what if it wasn't? Hail certainly
wasn't the first or the last brilliant
scientist to feel like he was receiving
messages from somewhere else. His
reverence for the sun wasn't just
theoretical. When he [music] designed
the Hail Solar Laboratory in Pasadena,
he included a tribute to Ankotton in the
arch above the entrance. The ancient
Egyptian pharaoh who [music] tried to
replace the entire Egyptian pantheon
with a single god, Autton, the Sundisk.
When Hail died, his obituaries called
him a priest of the sun, a modern
Zoroaster.
You might think Hail's beliefs were just
personal quirks unrelated to his
science. But this fits a much larger
pattern. Throughout history, the people
we celebrate for pure science. The
mathematicians, the [music] engineers,
the astronomers were often described as
tapping into something else, something
they themselves called mystical,
spiritual, or supernatural.
Today, we like to separate the discovery
from the discoverer. We want
breakthroughs to feel rational,
mechanical, explainable. But that
doesn't erase the fact that many of
those breakthroughs [music]
were made by people who believed they
were channeling something deeper.
Back in the early 20th century, Hail's
work helped lay the foundations for
modern astronomy. But his influence
didn't stop with telescopes. He also
transformed a small technical school,
Troop Polytenic, [music]
into what would become a powerhouse of
science and engineering, Caltech. By the
1930s, Caltech was more than just a hub
for equations and experiments. [music]
It became a magnet for the greatest
minds on earth. Hubble, Boore,
Oenheimer, [music]
Heisenberg, even Einstein passed through
its halls. But Caltech also attracted
[music] outsiders. One of them wasn't
even a student. But he would end up
reshaping the future of American
rocketry and possibly opening a door to
something far stranger. [music]
Jack Parsons. Hey everyone, Jesse here.
Let's talk about something a lot of us
quietly deal with. Hair loss. This is
something that messes with your
confidence more than you'd expect. Okay,
you might be wondering, Jesse, you
clearly don't suffer from this. It's
true. The biggest issue I face is hat
hair. I actually have very thick hair,
but one of my good friends deals with
hair loss. So, when I Restore sent me
their I Restore Elite, I gifted it to
him, and I've been amazed at the results
it gave him. The first thing that stood
out to him is it's comfortable and easy
to use. You just pop it on while reading
or working and it does its thing. This
isn't some gimmick. It uses 300 lasers
and 200 LEDs to deliver clinically
backed red light therapy straight to the
scalp. This is the best way to stimulate
hair growth. Over the past few weeks,
I've seen noticeable improvement with my
friend. He says that his hair feels
thicker and healthier and it's improved
his overall confidence in life. The I
restore Elite uses triple wavelength
technology and Lumat red light therapy.
It's engineered for deeper penetration
and broader coverage. That means more
stimulation to hair follicles and
better, faster results. And look, if it
doesn't work for you, they offer a
12month money back guarantee. I've never
heard of a money back guarantee that
lasts that long. Try it consistently and
if you're not happy, they get you your
money back. Of course, the restocking
fee applies. That made it a no-brainer
for my friend. So, give yourself the
gift of hair confidence this spring. For
a limited time only, our listeners get a
huge discount on i restore elite when
you use code Jesse Jes at irrestore.com.
Head over to irrestore.com and use code
jesse jes ssse for our show's exclusive
discounts on the I restore elite. Please
support our show and tell them we sent
you. Hair loss is frustrating. You don't
have to fight it alone. Thanks to Iris
restore
[music]
John Whiteside Parsons, Jack to his
friends, was born in Pasadena [music] in
1914.
From an early age, he was hooked on
science fiction.
He struggled in school and never earned
a formal degree. But that didn't matter.
Parsons had an intuitive genius for
chemistry in propulsion. As a teenager,
he and his friend Ed Foreman built
homemade rockets, scavenging parts from
Foreman's father's workshop. One
classmate later described them as a
couple of powder monkeys going out into
the desert blowing things up. Jack's
mother, worried about his obsession with
explosives, sent him to military school.
He was expelled after he blew up a
toilet block. Nothing deterred him.
Parsons had one dream, to build a
machine that could reach the moon.
By the early 1930s, he and Foreman were
sneaking onto the Caltech campus [music]
to meet like-minded students who
believed in rocketry. Just a few years
earlier, a Caltech student named Thomas
Townsen Brown had formulated a less
crude version of space travel. But that
fell upon deaf ears with top physics
professors at Caltech like Robert
Milikin. Parsons was able to gain much
more traction. He found an ally in Frank
[music] Molina, an engineering student
working under Theodore von Karman, one
of the sharpest minds in aerodynamics.
Together they formed an informal
rocketry group [music] and began testing
experimental engines in the Aoyo SECO, a
dry gulch just outside Pasadena. That
site would later become Jet Propulsion
Laboratory, JPL.
Now, here's something a lot of people
don't realize.
>> At about 24 miles altitude, the first
stage breaks away and the second stage
motors fire. In the early 20th century,
even some of the most respected [music]
physicists believed rockets wouldn't
work in space. One of them, Caltech's
[music]
own Fritz Zwicki, the man who coined the
term supernova and theorized [music]
dark matter, dismissed the idea as
nonsense. They misunderstood Newton.
They thought rockets needed something
[music] to push against, and in the
vacuum of space, there would be nothing
to push on.
Even the New York Times mocked the idea
in a 1920 [music]
editorial. So when people like Jack
Parsons pursued this, they weren't
solving a hard problem. They were
chasing what many thought was a
delusion. That makes what [music] they
achieved all the more remarkable. They
believed in the impossible then figured
out how to build it.
And Parsons, as we'll see, believed in
more than just [music] exotic
propulsion. At Caltech, his raw
intuition led to breakthroughs in both
solid and liquid fuels, more powerful
and reliable than anything that had come
before. [music] The tests were chaotic
and dangerous. But soon, the military
took notice. Parsons developed a solid
fuel [music] booster, or what would
later become the first stage of a rocket
to help heavily loaded aircraft take
[music] off. They called it jetass
assisted takeoff, or Jedo. They avoided
using the word [music] rocket because it
still sounded too much like science
fiction. The first successful Jedo
flight was [music] in 1941. By 1942, the
US military was ordering 20,000 units
per month.
But just as JPL was taking off, the FBI
came knocking. Because Jack [music]
Parsons wasn't just a rocket scientist.
He was also a practicing occultist.
He was a devoted member of the Ordo
Templey Orientis [music]
or Otto, an esoteric order led at the
time by the infamous Alistister Crowley.
[music]
The Lima, their belief system combined
ceremonial magic, [music] Eastern
mysticism, and tantric techniques into
what Crowley called sex magic. That's
magic with a K to distinguish it from
stage [music] tricks. Parsons wasn't
just a casual participant. He led the
local chapter from a Pasadena mansion
where he lived with a rotating cast of
artists, intellectuals, and magicians.
The rituals were elaborate, [music]
invoking gods, spirits, and forces said
to reside in higher dimensions.
The most infamous of these was the
Babylon [music] working, an attempt to
summon the divine feminine archetype
known as Babylon.
Inspired by Crowley's novel [music]
Moonchild, the ritual aimed to recreate
a magical child through [music]
spiritual and sexual practices, not
literal birth, but transformation of
[music] the self.
>> [crying]
>> kind of a weird extracurricular for a
guy who became known as the father of
the American space program.
>> These weren't acts of fantasy to
Parsons. He believed the rituals had
real power, that they could raise
consciousness, open doorways, and make
contact with nonhuman intelligences. He
wasn't alone in thinking this way.
Gnostic Christian sects, early mystics
like [music] Clement of Alexandria and
tantric traditions in India and China
all described sex as a vehicle for
divine communion. Not lust, but willful
transformation. Parsons believed he was
continuing that lineage. [music]
But it gets weirder. His ritual partner
for the Babylon working was a man named
Elron Hubard. Yes, that Elron Hubard.
Before founding Scientology, Hubard
helped Parsons conduct the ritual
series. But soon after, he ran off with
Parson's girlfriend and a chunk of his
money. Parsons, furious, [music]
attempted a magical counterattack,
invoking the spirit of Mars, Bartabel,
in a Miami hotel room. Magic or not,
Parsons got [music] his compensation.
Hubard's yacht would promptly encounter
a storm, and a court later forced him to
pay Parsons back. After that, some began
to wonder if the Babylon working had
actually succeeded, if it had opened
something up in 1946, because in the
years that followed, reports of
unidentified aerial phenomena began to
skyrocket. Parsons himself believed he
had made contact. He said he was being
guided by a non-human intelligence. That
idea surfaces in Diana Pulka's work as
well. The notion that visionary
scientists may have been receiving
messages, insights, or downloads [music]
from something beyond. It also is a
prominent theme in Professor
Himemenalysis's book, Bedeled about the
history of demons [music] in science.
Parsons wasn't alone in this belief.
Pythagoras, Newton, and even Edison
spoke of mystical inspiration or
communion with unseen [music] forces.
Edison near the end of his life actually
tried to build a device to communicate
with the dead. [music] So even if we
keep our skeptic hats on, we're left
with this strange pattern. Many of the
people responsible [music] for
scientific breakthroughs, people we call
geniuses, didn't see themselves as
inventors. [music] They saw themselves
as receivers.
In Parson's [music] case, he believed he
was building technology to carry
humanity into space with the help of
something else. He would sometimes
recite Crowley's [music] hymn to pan
during rocket tests.
lines were long.
>> According to legendary French UFO
researcher Jacqu Valet, there were
rumors of a ritual in the Mojave where a
[music] blonde woman appeared and
claimed to be from Venus. If true, this
would have been the first recorded
encounter with a quote unquote Nordic or
tall white nonhuman [music]
entity, predating similar contactee
stories by years. Eventually, [music]
Parson's occult lifestyle, strange house
guests, and growing paranoia led to
trouble. He was pushed out of JPL. In
1952, [music]
he died in an explosion in his home
laboratory. Officially, it was ruled an
accident involving volatile chemicals,
but some found the circumstances
suspicious.
Parsons left a crater on Earth, but also
one on the moon. Literally, a lunar
crater now bears his name. And at JPL,
some insiders still call it Jack
Parson's Laboratory. Others just say
Jack Parsons lives. Now, you might be
thinking, sure, there was one eccentric
rocket guy with a thing for ritual
magic. Maybe he laid the groundwork for
ICBMs and Apollo. But that doesn't mean
that the whole field was weird. Maybe.
[music]
Longtime viewers of this show will know
we've covered evidence linking the Third
Reich to UFO technology before.
From reports [music] that Hitler knew
about the 1933 Magenta crash to rumors
of Nazi saucer tests in modern-day
Czechoslovakia
to the postwar absorption of German
rocket scientists experimenting with
exotic propulsion.
But what often surprises people isn't
just the tech. It's the fact that the
highest level of Hitler's regime were
obsessed with the occult. This wasn't
just Hollywood fantasy. Sure, Indiana
Jones gave us Nazis hunting for the Ark
of the Covenant, but the truth is
stranger.
In 1945, near the end of the war,
American forces uncovered a hidden stash
of Nazi documents in a cave in southern
Germany. Among them were records
revealing real state sponsored occult
projects, expeditions to Tibet to trace
Aryan origins, searches for ancient
runstones, pagan sites, and even a
governmentbacked quest to find the Holy
Grail. A lot of this stemmed from
Heinrich Himmler, head of the SS and one
of the architects of the Holocaust. He
was obsessed with Germanic mythology,
paganism, and mystical power. He turned
Wellsburg Castle into a ritual center
complete with a black sun chamber
beneath it and a roundt for his SS
knights.
He also created the Anna Nurbbe, a
pseudocientific institute devoted to
proving that the so-called Aryan race
descended from Atlantis. And yes, they
actually believed that the Nazi party
itself was born out of the Thule
Society, a vulkish secret group that
mixed Germanic paganism, Atlantis myths,
and Aryan esotericism.
The Thule Society held seances and
rituals meant to contact non-human
intelligences they believed were their
ancient progenitors, star beings from
the far north beneath the pole star.
They performed these rights at symbolic
locations like the hearts mountains on
nights like Wal Pergusnot, a festival
tied to witches, spirits, and old pagan
ceremonies. There are also claims about
the Vril Society, a group said to have
channeled anti-gravity technology and
psychic powers from an ancient
subterranean race.
Now, we don't have to believe any of
these occult theories themselves, but
what matters is the Nazis did. And it
didn't just stop at mysticism. The Nazis
were also pioneers of actual rocket
science. [music]
One of the key figures was Herman
Oberth. Born in Transennylvania,
inspired by sci-fi writer Jules Vern,
Oberth began theorizing about
spaceflight as a teenager.
In 1923, [music]
he published The Rocket into planetary
space, a landmark book that laid out how
a multi-stage [music] rocket could
escape Earth's gravity. He was decades
ahead of his time. He envisioned
orbiting telescopes, space suits,
weather controlling satellites, even
missions to other planets.
His ideas sparked [music] a movement.
And when World War II began, Oberth was
pulled into military work, building
rockets for Germany and later for Italy.
After the war, Oberth became one of the
few major scientists to publicly support
the reality of UFOs.
>> After so many witnesses have seen the
so-called flying saucers, their
existence cannot longer be denied. I
believe that these flying objects come
from another solar system.
>> In a 1954 lecture, he argued that these
UFOs had been observed since at least
the 1400s. [music]
Oberth believed they were piloted by
extraterrestrial visitors monitoring
Earth's nuclear sites and [music]
military tech. In interviews, he even
said, "We cannot take all of the credit
for our record advancements in certain
scientific fields. [music] We have been
helped. When asked by whom, he replied,
"The people of the other worlds."
Later in life, Oberth [music] was
invited to watch the launch of Apollo 11
and the space shuttle Challenger, but he
wasn't part of the official Operation
Paperclip transfer of Nazi scientists.
That honor fell to his most famous
student, Wernner von Braonn. Before we
jump in, I want to thank today's
sponsor. Hexclad cookware, aka the pans
I didn't know I needed until I ditched
the warped, flaked mess I've been
cooking with since college. But here's
what sold me. Hexclad pans are like if
stainless steel and nonstick had a love
child. And then Gordon Ramsay adopted
it. No joke, he actually uses them at
home and in his restaurants. And as we
all know, that guy doesn't suffer fools
gladly. So, he probably has equally high
standards for his cookware. First meal I
made, a seared steak and some scrambled
eggs. No sticking, no smoke alarm, no
soaking it overnight like it's some
artifact from an archaeological dig.
They're oven safe up to 500° F. They're
toxic free. And they even come somehow
with a lifetime warranty, which to me
sounds like cookware immortality. And
the knives, Japanese Damascus steel, 67
layers. It's this kind of precision that
makes you wonder if these were reverse
engineered from material found at a UFO
crash site. So, if you've got some sad
pan haunting your kitchen, replace it.
For a limited time, get 10% off my
exclusive link, hexcloud.com/jesse.
Again, that's hexcloud.com/jesse.
Please use that link. It shows a ton of
support for the channel and you get a
discount. Now back to the episode.
>> Dr. Fanban, were you embarrassed to come
to London this time after being
responsible for the VW weapons during
the war?
>> I'm really happy to have this [music]
opportunity to express my personal
sympathies to those in London who uh
lost their loved ones in uh [music]
these Bweapon raids. But then war is a
dirty business and all I can [music] say
is that I'm happy that it's all over
now. Von Braonn wasn't just a German
rocket scientist. [music] He was the
architect of the V2 missile program, a
major in the SS, and one [music] of the
top minds in Hitler's war machine. Like
Parsons, Von Braonn had dreamed of space
since he was a boy. But where Parsons
was invoking goddesses in desert [music]
rituals, Von Braonn was swearing loyalty
to Himmler and building rockets with
slave labor from [music] concentration
camps. After the war, the US swept von
Braonn up in Operation Paperclip, a
covert [music] mission to extract Nazi
scientists.
He was captured in Bavaria where a young
Henry Kissinger [music] was actually
helping run counter intelligence for the
United States. Von Braonn's record was
scrubbed and he was given a new job,
build [music] America's space program.
And that he did. Von Braonn became the
public face of NASA, a media darling,
the man behind the Saturn 5 rocket that
took [music] us to the moon. But the
overall size and weight of the rocket is
mainly determined by the 11 tons weight
[music] of this top section. This weight
dictates the amount of fuel and the
numbers of motors
needed to produce [music] enough power
to equalize the gravitational pull of
the Earth.
But behind the scenes, many of the
ideas, the scientists, and even the
weirdness of the Nazi space program had
been brought into the American one. As
we'll see, the weirdness didn't vanish.
It just changed uniforms.
But before we get to NASA's more
esoteric side, we need to check in with
the other major player in the space
race.
Before
[music]
Parson's, NASA or the Nazis, another
conception of human purpose, one tied to
our place in the universe, was emerging
in late 19th century Russia, something
we now call Russian cosmism.
It began with a librarian and
philosopher [music]
named Nikolai Theodorov who believed the
true task of humanity and Christianity
was not to await resurrection but to
cause it. He believed that one day
technology would allow us to resurrect
every human who had ever lived and that
once death was defeated, humanity's next
task would be to colonize the cosmos.
Among those most influenced by Theodorov
and his ideas was a deaf, self-taught
young man named Constantine Silkovski.
He would become known as the father of
Russian space flight. Silkovsky didn't
just believe space travel was possible.
He believed it was necessary. He saw
humanity as part of a cosmic process
destined to leave Earth and populate the
stars. In 1903, he developed what we now
call the Tilkovsky rocket equation, the
fundamental formula describing how a
rocket accelerates based on its mass and
exhaust velocity. Like Oberth, he
anticipated breakthroughs in rocketry
and space exploration well before they
were technologically feasible. And here
is where things get especially strange.
As Diana Pulka points out in American
Cosmic, Tilkovsky believed [music] that
nonhuman intelligences, what he called
ethereal beings, were communicating with
us through celestial symbols. He wrote,
"We are made as the ethereal beings
existing beyond our dimensions of
recognized reality.
These higher beings are in communication
with us, reading [music] our thoughts
and sending us messages through
celestial symbols which most of us do
not even perceive, much less understand.
A genius is one who comprehends and
channels these messages from higher
beings into technologies, products, and
even art. Silkovsky seemed to believe
that his rocket science, the very math
that would take humans off Earth, was
received through this kind of cosmic
transmission. He may have seen himself
not only as an engineer, but as a medium
for an intelligence beyond human
understanding. Another example of
someone who saw the spiritual dimension
of science as fundamental to the work
itself.
Even as the Soviet Union officially
rejected religion, it opened the door to
a different kind of cosmic mythology,
one in which ancient contact with
extraterrestrials was treated not as
fantasy, but as a legitimate scientific
possibility. These ideas were often
framed in speculative or scientific
language, a political workaround that
allowed Soviet thinkers to explore
humanity's possible contact with
advanced extraterrestrial civilizations
without invoking the supernatural.
Figures like Alexander Kazansv and Felix
Zagel proposed that alien visitors may
have influenced early human development,
seeding myths and technologies that were
[music] later taken on by ancient
cultures. Unlike in the West, where such
theories were typically fringe, in the
USSR, they were sometimes discussed in
academic circles, [music] covered in
state-run media, and even investigated
by military and intelligence services.
This made paleo contact, as they called
it, not just a conspiracy theory, but a
semi-legitimate line of inquiry into
humanity's cosmic origins. But it was
the Americans who won the space race
when they made it to the moon. And
maybe, just maybe, that mission carried
within it a hidden reverence for the
esoteric [music]
dimensions of space flight that men like
Tilkovsky and Fodorov had long
envisioned. Maybe the space race wasn't
just a cold war pissing contest, but a
transcendental mission. Which brings us
to NASA, where the weird gets even
weirder.
NASA was officially established on July
29th, 1958 by the National Aeronautics
and Space Act. On paper, this document
laid out that NASA was supposed to be a
civilian agency for space exploration
devoted to quote unquote peaceful
purposes for the benefit of all mankind.
But that idealism is tempered in the
very next paragraph. The act makes clear
that the general welfare and security of
the United States requires such an
organization and that [music] any
activities peculiar to or primarily
associated with weapon systems, military
operations, or the defense of the United
States fall outside the civilian
mandate. In practice, that meant if NASA
found anything deemed strategically
sensitive at all, a breakthrough in
propulsion, a powerful new sensor, or
even contact with non-human
intelligence, it could be withheld
[music] indefinitely. It's a reminder of
something we've talked about before. The
echoes of the 1954 Atomic Energy Act. If
you read the definition
of special nuclear material in the
public atomic energy act of 1954, it
basically states any material that
releases any kind of atomic energy
>> that [music] would be retrieved crash
material. So it's kind of a sneaky way.
>> No, it is if you actually read the
atomic energy act, if something is not a
nuke, but it has radiological energy
coming off it, you know, alpha, beta
decay, whatever,
>> same secrecy.
>> Same secrecy. So, how did the Nazi
rocket scientists get in? After
Operation Paperclip, Wernernner von
Braonn and his team were brought into
the [music] US to work on ballistic
missiles. Many of them ended up in
places like Fort Bliss in White Sands,
where they were housed in military camps
[music] and worked under tight control.
Swastikas and Nazi memorabilia were
reportedly on open display in some of
these facilities. FBI documents even
show that at one point von Braonn was
caught sending classified documents to
his Nazi counterparts in the USSR, but
it seemed like no disciplinary action
was ever taken.
During this period, von Braonn caught
the attention of Walt Disney.
The two collaborated on a series of
educational films about space
exploration. Von Braonn features a lot
in them, explaining the future of
[music] space exploration and the
capabilities of imagined rockets and
space stations. In one extended scene, a
team of astronauts travel to the far
side of the moon for the first time.
That's when a radar engineer yells out
that some kind of radiation [music] is
being picked up on their sensors at 33°.
Something that turns out to be a very
constructed looking feature on the
terrain of the moon. Get some flares in
that area quick. [snorts]
[music]
The film moves on without too much
attention being paid to [music] the set
of ruins on the moon. Almost like it was
just included for those that would
notice it. Perhaps it was just a
coincidence, an imaginative nod to the
unknowns of space. The coordinates 33°
are hard to ignore, especially given the
prominence of that number in the
Scottish right of Freemasonry.
There are a few Scottish right masons
you [music] might have heard of and
those that were awarded the highest
honor of becoming a 33rd degree. This
includes the first American to orbit the
Earth, John Glenn, as well as the
president, Harry Truman, and another
astronaut we've already discussed,
[music] Buzz Aldrin. James Webb, NASA
administrator, Scottish Wright Mason.
Kenneth Kleinct, director of Mercury,
Gemini, and Apollo, also a Scottish
Wright Mason. We've also got Leroy
Gordon Cooper Jr. who flew on the
Mercury and Gemini programs. [music] And
then you have Walter Shur Jr. and Don
Eizel, who flew on Apollo 7, as well as
Virgil Gryom, who flew on the Mercury
program, but sadly passed away in the
training capsule fire [music] for the
first Apollo mission. Thomas Patton
Stafford flew Apollo 10. All
threemasons. Later on Apollo 15, the
eighth person to walk on the moon was
also a Mason, James Irwin. And another
man we've already mentioned earlier,
Edgar Mitchell, who spent more than 9
hours walking on the moon's surface on
Apollo 14, Freemason.
So by the mid 1960s, [music] the
structure of NASA, and I mean the actual
power structure, was a strange cocktail
of former SS officers, Freemasons, and
[music] occultists.
And then there's the Teao's cave story.
You know where I do want to go, though?
You know, there all the conspiracies
that the moon landing was faked. And
then there's the UFO conspiracy that
Neil Armstrong saw like UFOs on the moon
or whatever. I'm not proposing that. I
don't necessarily think that that's
true. But the one possibly kind of funny
piece of additional evidence would be
that [music] the second expedition Neil
Armstrong did was in 1975 and it was to
a cave in Ecuador at the edge of the
Amazon. Uh, and it was called the Teaos
[music] Cave and it was supposed to
contain ancient alien metallic
artifacts. [music] And so clearly Neil
Armstrong believed enough in the
possibility of that thing to like go
into the Amazon and risk his life and
try to look for it. and a BBC
documentary crew followed [music] him in
there.
What we've seen throughout this video is
that there's something more than a
sterile materialist view of reality
behind the engineering and physics of
space exploration. There seems to be a
kind of ritual element to it. And one of
the clearest signs that NASA wasn't just
about nuts andbolt science is something
hiding in plain sight. The mission
patches.
Take the official Apollo program patch.
At first glance, it's simple. The Earth,
the moon, a path connecting them, and a
large letter A. But look again. Behind
the A is the constellation Orion. And
the crossbar of the A is deliberately
aligned with Orion's belt. The three
stars, Mntaka, Alnon, and Alito.
In Greek myth, Orion is the hunter, but
to the ancient Egyptians, those three
stars were Osiris, [music]
god of the afterlife, death, and
resurrection. And in the patch, they're
outlined in blue, given special
emphasis. Strange, right? Especially for
a mission named after Apollo, the Greek
god of the sun. Why name the mission
after one deity but center its symbolism
around an entirely different pantheon?
And which pantheon are we talking about
here? Was the big A for Apollo or for
Asar, the Egyptian name for Osiris? In
Egyptian myth, Osiris is murdered by his
brother Set and resurrected [music] by
his wife Isis and their son Horus, who
then defeats Set and restores cosmic
order, a myth of death, rebirth, and
celestial destiny written [music] into
the sky. NASA's primary launch pad at
White Sands, where Von Braonn ran early
tests, was launchpad 33. Same thing at
Kennedy Space Center. There's only one
runway, and it isn't runway 1 or A. It's
[music] runway 33.
Even key mission planners had surprising
backgrounds. Farooq Elba, who oversaw
lunar science planning [music] and
helped select Apollo landing sites, was
nicknamed the king by the astronauts.
His father was a scholar of Egyptian
religion. And of course, [music] NASA
was never shy about a little
synretatism. They would mix and mash and
pay homage to all sorts of ancient
traditions. Juno, the Roman queen of the
gods, lent her name [music] to one of
the earliest launch vehicles. Mercury,
the Roman messenger god, was chosen for
the first human space flight program.
Then came Gemini, the zodiac twins. And
finally, Apollo, the Greek sun god of
light, knowledge, and rebirth.
One of the most intriguing aspects of
the whole story is how the symbolism
doesn't stop at names or patches. It
carries into the actual timing of the
launches themselves.
Back in 1936, while Jack Parsons was
still testing rockets in the Aoyo SECO,
his team managed their first successful
liquid fuel test on Halloween night.
That date, October 31st, was originally
sin, a pagan festival marking the
midpoint between the autumn equinox and
the winter [music] solstice. Over 20
years later, Explorer 1, the first US
satellite built by JPL, was launched on
January 31st, [music] 1958. That day is
known in the Christian calendar as
Candelmiss, but in the pagan tradition
as immulk. The odds of the US space
program being bookended by Sawin and
Candlemiss, [music]
two crossquarter days with deep ritual
significance in European pagan tradition
are striking. Even if not consciously
planned by the engineers, the timing
seems to follow an occult [music]
template. Sawin as a symbolic gateway
and candlemiss as a moment of rebirth.
Together they frame the dawn of American
space flight. But we're just getting
started. This alignment with sacred
[music] dates was not a one-off. During
the Apollo era, launch planners
sometimes chose dates that aligned with
celestial or symbolic turning points.
One of the clearest examples was Apollo
8, the first crude orbit of the moon. It
launched on December 21st, 1968, the
winter solstice, the day the sun is
symbolically reborn [music] after the
longest night of the year. Apollo 8
marked the first time humans left
Earth's gravitational field. And from
lunar orbit, the crew delivered the
famous Genesis reading on Christmas Eve.
>> In the beginning, God created the heaven
and the earth. And the earth was without
form and void, and darkness was upon the
face of the deep. And the spirit of God
moved upon the face of the waters. And
God said, "Let there be light." And
there was light. And God saw the light
that it was good and divided the light
from the darkness.
>> But was it just convenient scheduling?
Or was some deeper archetypal pattern
playing out? A subconscious script of
death and resurrection. I'm going to
give a little warning here. What I'm
going to lay out next is highly
speculative. I'm not saying I definitely
believe it. And it might sound a little
bit out there. Let's take Apollo 11 as
an example.
Launched on July 16th, 1969, [music]
it coincided with the 24th anniversary
of the Trinity atomic test, the dawn of
the nuclear age. But the moon landing
itself on July 20th happened under the
astrological sign of Aquarius, [music]
symbol of the water bearer and bringer
of knowledge. Aquarius is often linked
with enlightenment and radical change.
And it's tempting to think that the moon
landing, timed as it was, might have
been more than a technological
milestone. It could have been seen as a
ritual passage into a new cosmic age,
the so-called age of Aquarius. Remember,
Aluldren poured wine into a silver
chalice during his private communion
ceremony on the moon. Humanity, in a
sense, poured itself into another world.
What's especially fascinating is that
these symbolic alignments haven't gone
away. They've continued into the 21st
century. In a presentation, former CIA
officer John Ramirez described one
particular case. The 2005 launch of
NOL16.
The mission patch was strange. It showed
a pelican, a sun, several pentagrams, a
silhouette of Bigfoot, and palm trees.
Ramirez said that the pelican caught his
attention because it matched the aviary
code name of CIA scientist Ron Pandalfi.
Pandalfi has been a mysterious figure
long tied to the UFO topic. He has
worked on exotic physics, was connected
to the Jason's and MITER Corporation,
and was part of the CIA's Office of
Scientific and Weapons Research. A lot
of people say that Pandalfi works the
CIA's weird desk. According to Ramirez,
Pandalfi was directly involved in this
NROL16 launch. The launch itself
happened on 12:50 a.m. on April 30th,
2005. This happens to be the same day of
Walbergnock, the traditional pagan
holiday tied to the idea of gates
opening between worlds. The vehicle
carried a payload named Prometheus
launched on a Titan 4 rocket and headed
northeast towards the constellation of
the Big Dipper. This alignment has
uncanny parallels to a ritual described
in the 1977 grimmoire known as the
Necronomicon. According to the text, the
best time to perform the ceremony of
walking, a kind of spiritual journey to
the stars is when the great bear hangs
by its tail in the sky. The ritual is
said to work best around midnight facing
north with specific emphasis on the
northeast, the direction the Big Dipper
rises. The number five is the sacred and
the launch occurred at 050, 5 years into
the millennium on a patch covered in
five pentagrams. One,
>> some researchers like Peter Levenda have
suggested that figures close to these
launches encouraged people like Tom Dong
to study Greek mythology, especially the
story of Prometheus [music] to better
understand the UFO phenomena. That name
of course matched the payload on the
NROL16.
After the launch, the remaining Titan 4
rockets were retired. One went to the
National Museum of the US Air Force at
Wright [music] Patterson Air Force Base.
The other went to McMminville, Oregon,
the site of one of the most famous UFO
photographs ever taken in 1950. All
slightly skitso coincidences maybe. But
Lenda has said that he's personally
received letters from inside the US
military praising the Necronomicon for
being quote unquote spoton, including
some from officers in strategic air
command. For years, his book was even a
bestseller at Fort Benning.
>> In just a few minutes, we're going to be
an annual surge of close to 400,000
vacers.
>> Then there's the symbolism of the Big
Dipper itself. In Spielberg's Close
Encounters of the Third Kind, the first
UFOs to appear above Devil's Tower form
the shape of the dipper in the sky.
Jacqu Valet noted that Betty Hill's
abduction story also began with her
seeing one too many stars in the dipper.
Even Navy pilot Ryan Graves, who's very
humble in his claims, has said that
pilots reported UAPs emerging from the
dipper and even dog fighting near it in
orbit. Ancient Egyptian rituals used
dipper-shaped tools to send pharaohs
into the afterlife. Dowist sages would
trace its stars in ascension rituals.
Tommy, one of the fathers of modern
astronomy in 2n century AD Alexandria
would also say that souls would ascend
through Orion's belt. [music] Even the
thule society saw the circumpolar stars
as a point of origin for nonhuman
intelligences. And then look at modern
super experiencers like Chris Bledsoe.
Bledsoe believes that the nonhuman
intelligence he is in contact with,
which he has termed the lady, is linked
to the dipper, and that her companions
call themselves quote unquote the
Guardians. [music]
Coincidentally, Guardians is the term
now used by the US Space Force. And the
emblem of Space Delta 7, the Space
Force's intelligence wing, shows a bear
holding a key in front of the Big
Dipper. So, we return to the central
question. Are these patterns just
coincidence? Are we connecting the dots
in a crazy way? Paridolia, finding
patterns where they don't exist, or does
the pattern these disperate dots create
suggest something deeper?
We return to Diana Pulka in her
discussions with the enigmatic Tyler D.
Timothy Taylor, the NASA mission
controller. One of the most curious
aspects of Taylor's story is his claim
that he receives downloads from an
intelligence he believes is non-human.
These downloads appear as sudden flashes
of insight, full mental blueprints or
instructions. He says they come to him
through specific protocols and they've
led to real patents in technologies.
They have also shaped how he approaches
his ongoing work within the US space
program. Even if we take the most
skeptical approach, assuming Taylor is
simply a highranking engineer with
strange personal beliefs, it still
leaves us with a wild but undeniable
fact. Someone overseeing major NASA
launches believes they are influenced by
a nonhuman intelligence. I'm fairly sure
Tim Taylor is a known entity at Kennedy
Space Center. I personally tried to meet
up with him once, but he had to go to
Florida for a launch. And finally, I
found this bizarre connection between
Tim Taylor and mid-century anti-gravity
inventor Thomas Towns and Brown. Brown's
daughter, Linda, reviewed Tim Taylor's
book on Amazon before anybody knew who
Tim Taylor was, well before he was
written about even pseudonmously in
Diana Pulka's American Cosmic.
And then Tim Taylor apparently told
Christopher Bledso's son Ryan that he
was part of a secret time travel program
in Nassau in the Bahamas and that Thomas
Towns and Brown was the president of
that group.
I know a ton about Thomas Towns and
Brown and I can tell you definitively he
was obsessed with time travel. He also
spent an inordinate amount of time in
the Bahamas with the inspiration for
James Bond and Winston Churchill super
spy William Stevenson.
And then there's Tim Taylor telling
Pulka that he was part of the quote
unquote adjustment team, an homage to
Philip K. Dick's great book about a team
of time travelers. And if we're going to
entertain this speculation for a second,
then how would a secret time travel
program actually work? We know in
general relativity that gravity and time
are highly related. So maybe you do an
experiment like Thomas Towns and Browns.
You might create a high voltage
environment that bends spaceime itself.
Or you might launch a very oddly timed
rocket that happens to coincide with
ancient traditional rituals.
Who knows? I doubt we'll ever know. But
even if you dismiss all of those crazy
theories, it is clear that the modern
space program is not just a technical
story. It's a story about consciousness,
belief, and the role of the human mind
in space exploration. This same theme
shows up in other unexpected places.
Take James [music] Ryder, former vice
president of Loheed Martin and a
director at Skunkworks. In 2018, he gave
a talk called the garment of God. In it,
he emphasized the relationship between
mysticism, consciousness, and
technological progress. In a separate
lecture focused entirely on UAPs,
writers spoke openly about ritual
altered states and the overlap between
ancient spiritual entities and modern
contact experiences. [music]
Dr. James Latsky, the DIA physicist
involved in the OAP program made a
similar point within the US government
covert UFO program. Latsky writes that
the team gained access to a nonhuman
craft and [music] entered it. The United
States government has in its possession
a craft of unknown origin and you are
able to access the inside. Is [music]
that correct?
>> Yes.
>> But elsewhere he's taken things further,
saying that if full human capabilities
were known to [music] us right now, it
is not something that we need to fear.
Our capabilities never have been fully
[music] revealed and we're still
learning. We've got a long way to evolve
still. Then there's Dr. Jeffrey Krele,
chair of philosophy and religious
studies at Rice University. On the Danny
Jones podcast, he [music] revealed that
Charles Chase, director of Loheed's
revolutionary projects organization,
once invited him to give a private talk
to top engineers on one topic,
levitation. Krele spoke about shamans,
saints, and monks from around the world
who claimed to float during intense
[music] spiritual or meditative states.
Apparently, Chase felt these accounts
were worth studying. He wanted the
engineers at Skunkworks to hear about
it. And Chase wasn't alone. Other senior
skunk works figures, Robert [music]
Weiss, Steve Justice, and Eric Shrock,
along with Air Force Research Lab
Commander Neil McCastelin, all advised
Tom Dong and Peter Levenda's Secret
Machines Project. These men weren't UFO
YouTubers. They were among the most
technologically [music] capable
individuals in the defense sector. It
should come as no surprise then that the
core thesis of the book secret machines
is that UAP are mystical machines.
According to both Dong and Lenda, these
elite scientists frequently circle back
to one concept in their conversations,
[music]
human consciousness. So when
experiencers say they fly the craft with
their minds, it might not be as
far-fetched [music] as it sounds. It
seems like people in the most elite
circles of aerospace seem to entertain
the same possibility. When Diana Pulka
asked Taylor why he was interested in
her work on religious studies, his
answer was simple. The next development
in my field, rocket science, will come
from yours. Religion.
As the 20th century philosopher Enri
Bergone put it, the mystical summons up
the mechanical. The origins of the
process of mechanization are more
mystical than we might imagine. He also
said, the eyes can only see what the
mind is prepared to comprehend.
It seems like an inescapable conclusion
that the history of rocket science and
[music] physics is intimately connected
to mystical traditions, the occult, and
ancient mythology. Whether it was
Einstein dozing off as a patent clerk in
Zurich or Dac staring at the fire in
Cambridge and downloading the Dac
equation or Wolf Gang Pali receiving the
architecture of the hydrogen atom in a
dream or Heisenberg receiving the
mathematical underpinnings of quantum
leaps at Helgoland. Throughout history,
genius and inspiration have been [music]
described not as invention but
reception.
It may be something that
extraterrestrial or non-human
intelligence is sharing with us. Or it
may be the truth that is being protected
by secrets. As referenced by the first
man to ever walk on the moon, Neil
Armstrong.
>> We leave you much that is undone.
There are great ideas undiscovered,
breakthroughs available to those who can
remove
one of truth's protective layers.
>> It was Neil Armstrong who asked to sit
with my father and family and turns out
>> that he did talk with my father and they
talked seriously about creating a new
UFO research group.
>> Wow. which was
>> which well I think became Kufos because
>> Neil was he was fairly reclusive not
like Buzz Aldron he's not didn't really
enjoy the spotlight and especially in
the early '7s there was so much more
stigma attached to the phenomena that he
decided it's [music] just not for me but
for me some of the most telling evidence
are these things the fact that Neil
Armstrong
publicly sat with my father who had
>> a reputation Yeah, it had good
astronomical bonafides, but was known
for UFOs at that time.
>> He sat with him and I know he talked
with my dad about pursuing this. So, I
don't know what he saw or what he think
he may have seen.
>> Mhm.
>> But he was a, you know, [music] jet
pilot, a test pilot, and he decided that
there was something going on and he
wanted to work with my father to figure
out what it was.
>> Wow.
Alchemist, did you enjoy that? Well,
here's the thing. That episode was just
the tip of the iceberg. So much research
went into the script, and a ton of wild
stuff had to get cut. I'm talking Nazi
occult expeditions during World War II,
debates about whether the moon is
inhabited or hollow, and a lot more. If
you want the full picture, head over to
the American Alchemy magazine we just
launched on Substack. That's where we
deep dive into all sorts of crazy topics
that we don't have time to fit into
every video with weekly articles
exploring all of the strange, forgotten,
and conspiratorial corners of space,
history, and high weirdness. So, join up
today at our free or paid tiers on
Substack. I am including the full link
in the description of this video and the
first subscribers all get free American
Alchemy hats.